---
layout: default
title: Program
---

# Program

**Monday, October 21, 2019**  
**Vancouver Convention Centre East, Ballroom A**

<table class="program">
  <tr>
    <td>9:00am &ndash; 9:20am</td>
    <td>
      Opening Remarks<br/>
      Posters Fast Forward
	  <a style="font-size: smaller;" href="#posters">Details</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>9:20am &ndash; 10:10am</td>
    <td>
      <h4>Keynote Presentation</h4>
      <b>Visual Analysis in the Age of Data</b><br/>
      <i>Professor Christopher R. Johnson, University of Utah</i>
      <a style="font-size: smaller; display: block; margin-top: .5em;" href="#keynote">Details</a>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10:10am &ndash; 10:30am</td>
    <td>
      <h4>Graph Layouts</h4>
      (Session Chair: Brian Summa)
      <ul>
        <li>
          Force-Directed Graph Layouts by Edge Sampling<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
        </li>
      </ul>
    </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10:30am &ndash; 10:50am</td>
    <td>Break</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>10:50am &ndash; 12:10pm</td>
	<td>
	  <h4>Session: Feature Tracking and Rendering</h4>
	  (Session Chair: Chris Bryan)
	  <ul>
	    <li>
		  Feature Tracking Utilizing a Maximum-Weight Independent Set Problem<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
        </li>
	    <li>
		  Low-Overhead In Situ Visualization Using Halo Replay <br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
        </li>
	    <li>
		  Interactive Rendering of Large-Scale Volumes on Multi-Core CPUs<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
		</li>
	    <li>
		  PxStream: Remote Visualization for Distributed Rendering Frameworks<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
		</li>
	  </ul>
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>12:20pm &ndash; 2:20 pm</td>
    <td>Lunch</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>2:20pm &ndash; 3:40pm</td>
	<td>
	  <h4>Session: Turbulence, Particles and Topology</h4>
	  (Session Chair: Xavier Tricoche)
	  <ul>
	    <li>
		  Distributed Percolation Analysis for Turbulent Flows<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
        </li>
	    <li>
		  A Lifeline-Based Approach for Work Requesting and Parallel Particle Advection<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
        </li>
	    <li>
		  Ranking Viscous Finger Simulations to an Acquired Ground Truth with Topology-aware Matchings<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
		</li>
	    <li>
		  Topology-Based Spectral Sparsification<br/>
          <i><!--Author List--></i>
		</li>
	  </ul>
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>3:50pm &ndash; 4:10pm</td>
	<td>Break</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>4:10pm &ndash; 5:10pm</td>
	<td>
	  <h4>Panel</h4>
	  <b>AI + VIS in the Era of Big Data</b><br/>
	  <i><!--Panelists: --></i><br/>
	  <small><!--Description--></small>
	</td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>5:10pm &ndash; 5:30pm</td>
	<td>
	  Best Paper Awards<br/>
	  Closing Remarks
	</td>
  </tr>
</table>

---

# Keynote

**Visual Analysis in the Age of Data**<br/>
_Professor Chris R. Johnson, Scientific Computing & Imaging (SCI) Institute, University of Utah, USA_

We live in the Age of Data. Ninety percent of all data in the world has
been created in the past two years alone, at a rate of exabytes per day.
New data of all kinds - structured, unstructured, quantitative,
qualitative, spatial, and temporal - is growing exponentially and in every
way. Given the vast amount of data being produced, one of our greatest
scientific challenges is to effectively understand and make use of it.
Because visualization both facilitates the reasoning process by supporting
the human capacity to perceive, understand, and reason about complex
large-scale data and enables researchers to derive knowledge from data,
visual data analysis is one of our most important tools for understanding
such large-scale complex data. In this talk, I will present recent visual
analysis research and applications in science, engineering, and medicine
from the Scientific Computing and Imaging Institute and discuss current and
future visualization research challenges.

#### Speaker

<img style="padding: 0; margin: 0 0 1em 1em; float: right; width: 20%" src="assets/ChrisJohnson.jpg" />
Chris R. Johnson is a faculty member and the founding director of the
Scientific Computing & Imaging (SCI) Institute and a Distinguished
Professor of Computer Science the University of Utah. He is a Fellow of
AIMBE (2004), AAAS (2005), SIAM (2009), and IEEE (2014) and an inaugural
member of the IEEE Visualization Academy (2019). Professor Johnson has
received multiple research awards including the NSF Presidential Faculty
Fellow award from President Clinton, the Governor’s Medal for Science and
Technology, the Utah Cyber Pioneer Award, the IEEE Visualization Career
Award, the IEEE IPDPS Charles Babbage Award, the IEEE Sidney Fernbach
Award, and the University of Utah’s most prestigious faculty award, the
Rosenblatt Prize. Professor Johnson serves on multiple international
journal editorial boards, as well as on advisory boards to several national
and international research centers. With Charles Hansen, he co-edited the
Visualization Handbook.

---

# Posters

The LDAV posters session will take place during the IEEE VIS Opening
Reception, which is happening the evening before LDAV on Sunday, October
20, 7:00pm &ndash; 9:00pm. The posters will be on display throughout LDAV.
Authors will summarize their posters during a fast forward session at the
beginning of LDAV.

  * Large-Scale Cinematic Visualization Using Universal Scene Description  
    _Mark Bolstad_
  * Real-Time Compression of Dynamically Generated Images for Offscreen Rendering  
    _Leah Emerson, Thomas Marrinan_
  * VAMD: Visual Analytics for Multimodal Data  
    _John Fallon, R. Jordan Crouser_
  * Topological Analysis of High Velocity Turbulent Flow  
    _Thibault Bridel-Bertomeu, Benjamin Fovet, Julien Tierny, Fabien Vivodtzev_
  * Parallel Particle Advection and Lagrangian Analysis for 3D-PLI Fiber Orientation Maps  
    _Ali Can Demiralp, Daniel Zielasko, Markus Axer, Tom Vierjahn, Torsten Wolfgang Kuhlen_
  * A Proposed Framework for Interactive Virtual Reality In Situ Visualization of Parallel Numerical Simulations
    _Aryaman Gupta, Ulrik Günther, Pietro Incardona, Ata Deniz Aydin, Raimund Dachselt, Stefan Gumhold, Ivo F. Sbalzarini_
  * Bringing the Field into the Lab: Large-Scale Visualization of Animal Movement Trajectories within a Virtual Island
    _Jillian Aurisano, James Hwang, Andrew E Johnson, Lance Long, Margaret Crofoot, Tanya Berger-Wolf_
